KEP-3836 documentation for 1.30 (#45290)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/services-networking/service.md

can define your own (provider specific) annotations on the Service that specify the equivalent detail.
{{< /note >}}

#### Node liveness impact on load balancer traffic

> Kubernetes configures load balancers with "health check probes". These are used

Reviewer: I don't feel is kubernetes who configures load balancers with health check probes, as you describe later, is each cloud provider who configures them , and unfortunately , most of them do differently.

I think the nice thing of this feature is that tries to standardize this behavior based on common use cases and problems. so maybe you can follow this format:

"load balancer health checks are critical to modern applications, kubernetes APIs does not define how healthchecks has to be implemented for loadbalancers and this turned out that each cloud provider will implement different approaches (explain existing state here) .... 
However, there are some common scenarios and problems that can benefit of an unified mechanism to establish healthchecks for loadbalancers. We can differentiate two scenarios depending on the `externalTrafficPolicy` configured in the cluster ...
kubernetes uses kube-proxy as reference implementation for Services, kube-proxy listens on port 10256 ...
...
```

Author: OK, I tried to re-word the introduction following your recommendation

by load balancers to determine which VM instance the load balancer should
dispatch traffic on. The health check probe in this context is not a Kubernetes
health check probe (as in liveness/readiness) but a construct cloud providers
expose with the goal of allowing users the possibility to impact traffic load
balancing. Kubernetes uses this within the context of supporting the feature
`externalTrafficPolicy`. If `cluster` is specified all nodes are eligible load
balancing targets _as long as_ the node is not being deleted and Kube-proxy is
healthy. In this mode: Kubernetes configures the load balancer health check to
target the service proxy's readiness port and path. In the case of Kube-proxy
this evaluates to: `${NODE_IP}:10256/healthz`. Kube-proxy will return either an

> HTTP code 200 or 503. It will return 200 if a) Kube-proxy is healthy, meaning:
> it's able to progress programming the network and isn't timing out while doing
> so (the timeout is defined to be: `2 *
> kubeProxyIPTablesConfiguration.syncPeriod`) and b) the Node is not being
> deleted. The reason why Kube-proxy returns 503 and marks the node as not
> eligible when it's being deleted, is because Kube-proxy supports connection
> draining for terminating nodes. A couple important things occur from the point
> of view of a Kubernetes load balancer when a node _is being_ / _is_ deleted.

Reviewer 2: Try this:
```suggestion
HTTP code 200 or 503. The kube-proxy's load balancer health check endpoint returns
200 if:

1. the kube-proxy is healthy, meaning:
   - it's able to progress programming the network and isn't timing out while doing
     so (the timeout is defined to be: **2 × `iptables.syncPeriod`**); and
1. the node is not being deleted (there is no deletion timestamp set for the Node).

The reason why kube-proxy returns 503 and marks the node as not
eligible when it's being deleted, is because kube-proxy supports connection
draining for terminating nodes. A couple of important things occur from the point
of view of a Kubernetes-managed load balancer when a node _is being_ / _is_ deleted.
```

Author: Is it "the kube-proxy" or just "kube-proxy"? You edited it to "the kube-proxy" here but not elsewhere, so I am not sure.

While deleting:

* Kube-proxy will start failing its readiness probe and essentially mark the
   node as not eligible for load balancer traffic. The load balancer health
   check failing causes load balancers which support connection draining to
   allow existing connections to terminate, and block new connections from
   establishing.

When deleted:

* The service controller in the Kubernetes cloud controller manager removes the
  node from the referenced set of eligible targets. Removing any instance from
  the load balancer's set of backend targets immediately terminates all
  connections. This is also the reason Kube-proxy first fails the health check
  while the node is deleting.

It's important to note for Kubernetes vendors that if any vendor configures the
Kube-proxy readiness probe as a liveness probe: that Kube-proxy will start
restarting continuously when a node is deleting until it has been fully deleted.

Users deploying Kube-proxy can inspect both the readiness / liveness state by
evaluating the metrics: `proxy_livez_total` / `proxy_healthz_total`. Both
metrics publish two series, one with the 200 label and one with the 503 one.

> For services of `externalTrafficPolicy: local`:  Kube-proxy will return 200 if

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Services of `externalTrafficPolicy: local`:  Kube-proxy will return 200 if
```

> a) Kube-proxy is healthy/ready and b) has a local endpoint on the node in
> question. Note: node deletion does not have an impact on Kube-proxy's return
> code for what concerns load balancer health checks. The reason for this is:
> deleting nodes could end up causing an ingress outage should all endpoints
> simultaneously be running on said nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. kube-proxy is healthy/ready, and
2. kube-proxy has a local endpoint on the node in question.  
   Node deletion does **not** have an impact on kube-proxy's return code for what
   concerns load balancer health checks. This is because deleting nodes could end up causing
   an ingress outage should all endpoints simultaneously be running on said nodes.
```

It's important to note that the configuration of load balancer health checks is
specific to each cloud provider, meaning: different cloud providers configure
the health check in different ways. The three main cloud providers do so in the
following way:

* GCP: probes port 10256 (Kube-proxy's healthz port)
* AWS: if ELB; probes the first NodePort defined on the service spec

> * Azure: probes all NodePort defined on the service spec.

Reviewer 2: - It's not the cloud providers that configure health checks; it's the _integration code_ that does the configuring.
- Please list these firms in alphabetical order.

Author: What is the "integration code", is that what we call everything which lives here: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/staging/src/k8s.io/cloud-provider ?

Reviewer 2: > What is the "integration code", is that what we call everything which lives here: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/staging/src/k8s.io/cloud-provider ?

Not exactly. I think the implementation of code to configure health checking lives within repos like https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cloud-provider-azure or https://github.com/digitalocean/digitalocean-cloud-controller-manager

Author: OK, those can be referred to as "cloud providers" though, right? It feels like "integration code" / "cloud provider integration code" is a more convoluted and might be difficult for users to understand when reading the code.

There are drawbacks and benefits to each method, so none can be considered fully
right, but it is important to mention that connection draining using Kube-proxy

> can therefore only occur on GCP where the health checks are targeting

Reviewer 2: Avoid implying there are only 3 cloud providers.

can define your own (provider specific) annotations on the Service that specify the equivalent detail.
{{< /note >}}

#### Node liveness impact on load balancer traffic

Load balancer health checks are critical to modern applications. They are used to
determine which VM instance the load balancer should dispatch traffic on. The
Kubernetes APIs do not define how health checks have to be implemented for Kubernetes
managed load balancers, instead it's the cloud providers who implement the behavior.
Load balancer health checks are extensively used within the context of supporting the
feature `externalTrafficPolicy`. If `cluster` is specified all nodes are eligible
load balancing targets _as long as_ the node is not being deleted and kube-proxy
is healthy. In this mode: load balancer health checks are configured to

> target the service proxy's readiness port and path. In the case of kube-proxy this

Reviewer 2: IMO: the detail about kube-proxy belongs in https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/

I'd move all the new text from here onwards into that other page.

While deleting:

* kube-proxy will start failing its readiness probe and essentially mark the
   node as not eligible for load balancer traffic. The load balancer health
   check failing causes load balancers which support connection draining to
   allow existing connections to terminate, and block new connections from
   establishing.

When deleted:

* The service controller in the Kubernetes cloud controller manager removes the
  node from the referenced set of eligible targets. Removing any instance from
  the load balancer's set of backend targets immediately terminates all
  connections. This is also the reason kube-proxy first fails the health check
  while the node is deleting.

It's important to note for Kubernetes vendors that if any vendor configures the
kube-proxy readiness probe as a liveness probe: that kube-proxy will start
restarting continuously when a node is deleting until it has been fully deleted.

Users deploying kube-proxy can inspect both the readiness / liveness state by
evaluating the metrics: `proxy_livez_total` / `proxy_healthz_total`. Both
metrics publish two series, one with the 200 label and one with the 503 one.

> For Services of `externalTrafficPolicy: local`:  kube-proxy will return 200 if

Reviewer 2: It's `Local` (title case).

1. kube-proxy is healthy/ready, and
2. has a local endpoint on the node in question.

Node deletion does **not** have an impact on kube-proxy's return
code for what concerns load balancer health checks. The reason for this is:
deleting nodes could end up causing an ingress outage should all endpoints
simultaneously be running on said nodes.

It's important to note that the configuration of load balancer health checks is
specific to each cloud provider, meaning: different cloud providers configure

> the health check in different ways. The three main cloud providers do so in the
> following way:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the health check in different ways. The Kubernetes project provides integrations for several cloud
providers, and those integrations behave in the following way:
```
We should define / document the behavior for all the integrations within the Kubernetes project (and **not** just the three most popular vendors).

Author: Yeah: I didn't want to go down that road because "all the integrations" was non-evident to workout in itself, moreover reading their code and understand what they do is non-trivial.

Reviewer 2: In that case, let's not list any for this PR. We can revisit it before the graduation to stable.

> * AWS: if ELB; probes the first NodePort defined on the service spec

Reviewer 2: All AWS-managed load balancers are [elastic load balancers](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/) (you might be thinking of ELBv1?)

LB types such as gateway load balancer are a subtype of elastic load balancer.

Reviewer 2: Sure you can. That network load balancer is a kind of elastic load balancer.

Author: Actually, I removed any reference to specific cloud providers but kept the general gist that "some configure the HC to target kube-proxy, but others the application". I thought it made sense given that the paragraph ends with recommendations on what to do based on that previous information. I kept a separate commit for this so that you can clearly see the diff
